Minimal Message Board

NOW THIS IS WOEFULLY OUT OF DATE!!

GIVE THE COMMAND ./mbconf -h FOR MORE UP-TO-DATE INFO!

DEVELOPERS ONLY:
This is now in a bzr repository.  Checkout a copy with
bzr checkout bzr+ssh://si110@wasabi.academy.usna.edu/home/si110/dev/msg


A. This directory contains a minimal message board
   with authentication.  Nothing is done securely,
   that's sort of the point!  Note that this has
   to be accesed via http, file:///... won't work,
   because it needs to interact with the webserver.

B. From the user view, there are three pages of note:
   newacct.html <--- page for creating a new account
   login.htm    <--- page for login to existing account
   mb.html      <--- the actual message board

C. The "under the hood" view is this:
   0. the file .htaccess forces (kindly requests that)
      the browsers to fetch fresh copies of mb.html
      instead of using cache'd copies.  The upshot is
      that a posted message reliably appears without
      user initiated refresh.
   1. usernames & passwords are stored in pswd.txt.
   2. posted messages are stored in msgRAW.
   3. When a message is submitted via mb.html, it is
      sent to mb.cgi, where the message (prefaced with
      the username) is added to msgRAW.  Then a new 
      mb.html is created by mb.cgi, which finally sends
      the user back to mb.html.
   4. login.html calls login.cgi to actually authenticate
   5. newacct.html calls newacct.cgi to create a new account
   6. login.cgi saves a cookie with username and password
      on the client machine, which is how access (to post)
      is controlled.

D. Set Up
   Copy this directory (msg) wherever you want the board.
   All linking is relative, so move/rename this
   directory wherever you like, and it'll all work.
   Permissions are important though.  This sets them:

   chmod 755 newacct.cgi login.cgi mb.cgi
   chmod 644 newacct.html login.html
   chmod 666 msgRAW pswd.txt mb.html

   Note that by turning off read or execute permissions on
   newacct.cgi you disable account creation.  So doing

   chmod 700 newacct.cgi

   will make it impossible for someone to create a new
   message board account.

E. You can clear the message board by sending the
   message "clearit" - either from mb.html or on
   the URL bar as "mb.cgi?msg=clearit".
   You can add users by editing the file pswd.txt 
   rather than using newacct.html if you prefer.
   The format of pswd.txt is uname:passwd, one per line,
   e.g.

   wcbrown:foobar
   crabbe:barfoo



   
